# Java_Unit_Testing

## How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?
I ensure my code is functional through testing, in this portfolio specifically through unit testing. By testing each class and method in isolation and then measuring test coverage, I can ensure my code does what it is supposed to and that I've met requirements. To expand on this, I would look to include additional testing methodologies like static testing (Lint, Style) and additional dynamic testing (integration, load, acceptance ect). For ensuring secure code, I first follow the tenants of Object Oriented programming by making sure I utilize encapsulation, polymorphism and abstraction. I also will use tools like Spotlight in my CICD pipeline to scan my code for common security issues like including clear-text passwords or vulnerable library inclusion. Lastly, I would want my code to be penatration tested and vulnerability scanned on a regular basis to ensure I've got all security angles covered.

## How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
Interpreting user needs comes through requirements gathering, hopefully I can do this by working directly with stake-holders and Product Owners to craft user-stories. User stories will help me craft both functional and non-functional requirements that can be translated into work stories for engineers to deliver features. I like to start with defining a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) that includes a large main feature or two, so we can quickly show product value back to the business and thusly creating a fast feedback loop that will help my team agiley develop the product. By creating a fast feedback loop, we can pivot direction quickly when needed and build a cadence of iterative development. 

## How do I approach designing software?
Much the same as above, I approach designing software by first making sure I have clear user and business requirements defined. I define an MVP and create user stories to deliver important product features. I make sure that testing and security are top priorities as we deliver features and I demo our product progress to stakeholders early and often. 
